.TH REDIS.CONF 5 "2016" "Redis" "Configuration files"
.SH NAME
redis.conf, sentinel.conf - redis server configuration files.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
All empty lines or lines beginning with '#' are ignored.
.TP
See inline comments for parameters description.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBredis-server\fP read the configuration file passed as first argument.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBredis\-server\fR(1)


.SH BUGS
See:
.PD 0
.B http://redis.io/support
and
.B https://github.com/antirez/redis/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2016
Salvatore Sanfilippo
.P
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.TP 2
*
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP
*
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP
*
Neither the name of Redis nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.
.P
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
