.TH REDIS-BENCHMARK 1 "2016" "Redis" "User commands"
.SH NAME
redis\-benchmark \- Redis benchmark

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redis\-benchmark
[ options ]
.LP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRedis\fP is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store,
used as database, cache and message broker, found at
.B http://redis.io/

The \fBredis\-benchmark\fP command is a command to benchmark redis-server.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-h \fIhostname\fP
Server hostname (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fP
Server port (default: 6379).
.TP
.B \-s \fIsocket\fP
Server socket (overrides hostname and port).
.TP
.B \-a \fIpassword\fP
Password to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.B \-c \fIclients\fP
Number of parallel connections (default 50)
.TP
.B \-dnnum \fIdb\fP
SELECT the specified db number (default 0)
.TP
.B \-k \fIboolean\fP
1=keep alive 0=reconnect (default 1)
.TP
.B \-r \fIkeyspacelen\fP
Use random keys for SET/GET/INCR, random values for SADD
Using this option the benchmark will expand the string __rand_int__
inside an argument with a 12 digits number in the specified range
from 0 to keyspacelen-1. The substitution changes every time a command
is executed. Default tests use this to hit random keys in the
specified range.
.TP
.B \-P \fInumreq\fP
Pipeline <numreq> requests. Default 1 (no pipeline).
.TP
.B \-e
If server replies with errors, show them on stdout.
(no more than 1 error per second is displayed)
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet. Just show query/sec values
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output in CSV format
.TP
.B \-l
Loop. Run the tests forever
.TP
.B \-t \fItests\fP
Only run the comma separated list of tests. The test
names are the same as the ones produced as output.
.TP
.B \-I
Idle mode. Just open N idle connections and wait.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 5
Run the benchmark with the default configuration against 127.0.0.1:6379:
$ redis\-benchmark
.TP
Use 20 parallel clients, for a total of 100k requests, against 192.168.1.1:
$ redis-benchmark \-h 192.168.1.1 \-p 6379 \-n 100000 \-c 20
.TP
Fill 127.0.0.1:6379 with about 1 million keys only using the SET test:
$ redis\-benchmark \-t set \-n 1000000 \-r 100000000
.TP
Benchmark 127.0.0.1:6379 for a few commands producing CSV output:
$ redis\-benchmark \-t ping,set,get \-n 100000 \-\-csv
.TP
Benchmark a specific command line:
$ redis\-benchmark \-r 10000 \-n 10000 eval 'return redis.call("ping")' 0
.TP
Fill a list with 10000 random elements:
$ redis\-benchmark \-r 10000 \-n 10000 lpush mylist __rand_int__
.TP
On user specified command lines __rand_int__ is replaced with a random integer
with a range of values selected by the -r option.


.SH BUGS
See:
.PD 0
.B http://redis.io/support
and
.B https://github.com/antirez/redis/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2016
Salvatore Sanfilippo
.P
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.TP 2
*
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP
*
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP
*
Neither the name of Redis nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.
.P
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
