.TH REDIS-SERVER 1 "2016" "Redis" "User commands"
.SH NAME
redis\-server, redis\-sentinel \- Redis server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redis\-server
[
.IR configuration_file
] [ options ] [ \-\-sentinel ]
.LP
.B redis\-sentinel
[
.IR configuration_file
] [ options ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRedis\fP is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store,
used as database, cache and message broker, found at
.B http://redis.io/
.LP
The \fBredis\-server\fP command is a command line to launch a Redis server.
.LP
The \fBredis\-sentinel\fP command is a symbolic link to the \fBredis\-server\fP
command and implies the \fB\-\-sentionel\fP option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-
Read configuration from stdin.
.TP
.TP 15
.B \-\-sentinel
Run in sentinel mode
.TP
.B \-\-test-memory \fImegabytes\fP
Run a memory check and exit.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-\-help
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-h
Output this help and exit.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-\-version
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-v
Output version and exit.
.P
All parameters described in \fBredis.conf\fR file can be passed as
command line option, e.g.
.B \-\-port
.IR port
.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 5
Run the server with default conf
redis-server
.TP
Run the server with a configuration file
redis-server /etc/redis/6379.conf
.TP
Run the server changing some default options
redis-server --port 7777 --slaveof 127.0.0.1 8888
.TP
Run the server with a configuration file and changing some options
redis-server /etc/myredis.conf --loglevel verbose
.TP
Run in sentinel mode
redis-server /etc/sentinel.conf --sentinel

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBredis.conf\fR(5)

.SH BUGS
See:
.PD 0
.B http://redis.io/support
and
.B https://github.com/antirez/redis/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2016
Salvatore Sanfilippo
.P
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.TP 2
*
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP
*
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP
*
Neither the name of Redis nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.
.P
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
