.TH REDIS-CLI 1 "2016" "Redis" "User commands"
.SH NAME
redis\-cli \- Redis client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B redis\-cli
[ options ] [cmd [arg [arg ...]]]
.LP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBRedis\fP is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store,
used as database, cache and message broker, found at
.B http://redis.io/

The \fBredis-cli\fP command is a command line client to redis-server.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.B \-h \fIhostname\fP
Server hostname (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fP
Server port (default: 6379).
.TP
.B \-s \fIsocket\fP
Server socket (overrides hostname and port).
.TP
.B \-a \fIpassword\fP
Password to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.B \-r \fIrepeat\fP
Execute specified command N times.
.TP
.B \-i \fIinterval\fP
When -r is used, waits \fIinterval\fP seconds per command.
It is possible to specify sub-second times like -i 0.1.
.TP
.B \-n \fIdb\fP
Database number.
.TP
.B \-x
Read last argument from STDIN.
.TP
.B \-d \fIdelimiter\fP
Multi-bulk delimiter in for raw formatting (default: \n).
.TP
.B \-c
Enable cluster mode (follow -ASK and -MOVED redirections).
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Use raw formatting for replies (default when STDOUT is not a tty).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-raw
Force formatted output even when STDOUT is not a tty.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output in CSV format.
.TP
.B \-\-stat
Print rolling stats about server: mem, clients, ...
.TP
.B \-\-latency
Enter a special mode continuously sampling latency.
.TP
.B \-\-latency\-history
Like \-\-latency but tracking latency changes over time.
Default time interval is 15 sec. Change it using -i.
.TP
.B \-\-latency\-dist
Shows latency as a spectrum, requires xterm 256 colors.
Default time interval is 1 sec. Change it using -i.
.TP
.B \-\-lru\-test
Simulate a cache workload with an 80-20 distribution.
.TP
.B \-\-slave
Simulate a slave showing commands received from the master.
.TP
.B \-\-rdb \fIfilename\fP
Transfer an RDB dump from remote server to local file.
.TP
.B \-\-pipe
Transfer raw Redis protocol from stdin to server.
.TP
.B \-\-pipe-timeout \fIn\fP
In --pipe mode, abort with error if after sending all data.
no reply is received within \fIn\fP seconds.
Default timeout: 30. Use 0 to wait forever.
.TP
.B \-\-bigkeys
Sample Redis keys looking for big keys.
.TP
.B \-\-scan
List all keys using the SCAN command.
.TP
.B \-\-pattern \fIpat\fP
Useful with --scan to specify a SCAN pattern.
.TP
.B \-\-intrinsic-latency \fIsec\fP
Run a test to measure intrinsic system latency.
The test will run for the specified amount of seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-eval \fIfile\fP
Send an EVAL command using the Lua script at \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-ldb
Used with --eval enable the Redis Lua debugger.
.TP
.B \-\-ldb-sync-mode
Like --ldb but uses the synchronous Lua debugger, in
this mode the server is blocked and script changes are
are not rolled back from the server memory.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Output this help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
cat /etc/passwd | redis-cli -x set mypasswd
.TP
redis-cli get mypasswd
.TP
redis-cli \-r 100 lpush mylist x
.TP
redis-cli \-r 100 \-i 1 info | grep used_memory_human:
.TP
redis-cli \-\-eval myscript.lua key1 key2 , arg1 arg2 arg3
.TP
redis-cli \-\-scan \-\-pattern '*:12345*'

.SH BUGS
See:
.PD 0
.B http://redis.io/support
and
.B https://github.com/antirez/redis/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006\-2016
Salvatore Sanfilippo
.P
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.TP 2
*
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP
*
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP
*
Neither the name of Redis nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.
.P
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
